The argument being made in the article The Global Temperature Record Says We Are in a ‘Climate Emergency’ is an interesting one as it focuses on the details of a popular NASA graph instead of the information the graph tries to convey. The article’s main argument is that because the scale of the popular NASA graph is so small, the graph easily misleads readers into believing global temperatures have changed drastically when, in reality, they have only changed by 1.1°C since large-scale fossil fuel burning began (Anon, 2021). The article went on to further explain how this is a classic technique in manipulating charts by providing examples from a data scientist. The article then concludes that the original NASA graph is misleading and used for climate fear mongering. The article does not end there, however, as it also includes a jab of climate activist Greta Thunberg’s age and United Nations speech, as well as a link to a supposed signed document of 500 scholars and scientists disagreeing to a climate emergency.  

This article is of particular interest for several reasons. Firstly, it focuses almost entirely on proving the graph scale wrong, when it should be focusing on what climate data to draw the graph. While the scale of the graph is important in conveying the severity of the temperature change, a simple google search will inform any reader that an average global temperature increase of 1.1°C is a clear indication global warming and can be incredibly dangerous in terms of climate repercussions (Ge et al., 2019; James et al., 2017). However, because the article focuses almost exclusively on the scale of the graph, it ends up coming to a conclusion that this 1.1°C is seemingly insignificant and a fear mongering tactic, leaving the reader with insufficient context to draw a correct conclusion. In addition, the article mentions Greta Thunberg for no apartment reason. It seems as they mention her specifically as a representative of all climate activists and scientists in order to paint them all in a naïve light. Lastly, the list of 500 signees they mention at the very end of the article seems not only out of place, but serves almost as an attempt to back up their credibility with the supposed “scientists and professionals” that agree with their stance. However, by simply clicking on the link provided, the list of 500 individuals consists almost entirely of non-climate scientists. Most of the professionals who signed the list are professionals in completely unrelated fields of study or are not even researchers or scientists.   

By analyzing this article and evaluating it as a potential information source, it is clear that it is not a credible site. In using source evaluating techniques, there are many red flags that deem this article and its website not credible. Firstly, the lack of author for the article makes it clear that whoever did write it likely does not have the correct educational background nor credentials to make this a credible article. Secondly, there are no peer reviewed articles cited in the reference section, meaning this article was not well researched. Additionally, the information that is cited by the data scientist is applied incorrectly and without context. Lastly, there is clear bias and a narrative being pushed in the article, evident by the list of 500 supposed professionals and scientists who are mostly not in the climate science field, as well as the unnecessary mentioning of well-known climate activist Greta Thunberg.  


References  

Anon 2021. The Global Temperature Record Says We Are in a ‘Climate Emergency’. [online] Everything Climate. Available at: <https://everythingclimate.org/the-global-temperature-record-says-we-are-in-a-climate-emergency/> [Accessed 24 Oct. 2021]. 

Ge, F., Zhu, S., Peng, T., Zhao, Y., Sielmann, F., Fraedrich, K., Zhi, X., Liu, X., Tang, W. and Ji, L., 2019. Risks of precipitation extremes over Southeast Asia: does 1.5 °C or 2 °C global warming make a difference? 14(4), p.044015. https://doi.org/10.1088/1748-9326/aaff7e. 

James, R., Washington, R., Schleussner, C.-F., Rogelj, J. and Conway, D., 2017. Characterizing half-a-degree difference: a review of methods for identifying regional climate responses to global warming targets. WIREs Climate Change, 8(2), p.e457. https://doi.org/10.1002/wcc.457.  
